You thought it might violate the directives of the president for impeding you from giving that information.
I asked you at that time if the army took the full responsibility up to that date and you said it did.
That's correct, yes.
Now subsequently, I believe you're superior to the secretary of the army has not only issued a press release but has testified
but you only have the full responsibility after that date.
That's correct, yes.
Therefore, this delay in proceedings is caused by that misunderstanding as to whether you did have the authority to give out that information or not.
Yes, the press release that I mean directly has in no sense been changed.
Has it directed the president's directive since you testified here last month?
Yes, then you did have there where I answered the question that that's correct.
Didn't you and saved all this delay?
Yes, sir.
If I may, I told you, sir, that I have seen it for only about 20 minutes more than you had at that time and the delay was because of the necessity for all of us to study an interpreter.
That's all I did.
You could have answered that still before I made it.
You could have answered it that day and saved all this today.
Interjection? No questions.
I have no question to this time.
It's a well-known democracy over the past four years.
Mr. Ad, you described pulling to the statement made by Secretary Stevens under oath this morning that the action decisions in this controversy with oath of the army and the army alone I do share.
I do suggest that you go to the Senate in Maclaw in on January 20th of whatever day it was.
As I have stated earlier, a suggestion was made to really go.
I am in this decision to go. I did not need to follow the suggestions.
Would you agree on this suggestion that must have been made?
Probably not, because it's a good idea.
Who gave you this good idea?
Mr. Rogers, I think that's previously just fine.
And the good idea was to go and see the distinguished senator from Arkansas as I write today.
He was not that a member of the committee, wasn't he?
No, he was not.
I'll just talk to him any I talk to him.
I think the newer applied to go to the distinguished senator who was not a member of this talk committee.
Is that right?
Well, I wasn't as wise as there he was suggested to me that that was the step that I might take.
I thought that it was a good idea.
Could you tell us why you thought that was your better idea and going to people who were a member of the committee?
Well, I can't say now that I can remember what my thinking was in January on that particular Sunday.
What's the decision I took?
That I took at that time?
Didn't Mr. Rogers ask you to go to the senate in Maclaw?
I don't consider that it was in order, a direction or anything other than a suggestion.
Had I chosen not to go, I wasn't happy.
My question was, is there any ask you to go to the senate in Maclaw?
The merely thing maybe you ought to think about this, what did he say?
He said, because he asked you to go to the senate in Maclaw.
Is Mr. Rogers asked you to go to the senate in Maclaw?
Well, we're in there, we're in the field of the mathematics now.
Which were he used?
Whatever he said, whether it was after, six yet or whatever it was.
The decision as to whether or not I could go with mine.
Hold on to the important, you are Mr. Rogers.
Mr. Rogers, have you known the senate in Maclaw?
No, sir, I have not.
You were not on the phone.
Now, I have met him once, and he wasn't different.
Now, Mr. Rogers, you still stand on your testimony given in page 268, Mr. Rogers, a record.
Later that afternoon, Mr. Rogers telephoned me and asked me if I was going to the senate in Maclaw,
whom I did not know, and told him the story, and how these matters seem to be related.
He arranged the important, and tried to near fact that he asked in the case that he was leading to the state in the need.
What you think for too many years, then you have the option of refusing the thing doesn't count.
No, I didn't say that. You said that.
How would you put it, Mr. Rogers?
I had the option of refusing.
That's an eight-in-a-d難y decision, and it's whether or not I went.
And you made the decision, that's correct.
And so I think you said you were thirty seconds in command of the army.
That's right, that's the little statistic.
I don't think that one know is where I stand.
I'm an outsider to the secretary of the army. I am reading on them.
Well, did you get so much to solve any superior in the army before making contributions?
I'm not sure whether I can solve it any superior before making that decision.
Mr. Seaman was out of the country.
The undersecretary of the army was acting as secretary of the army, and I was in regular complication with him during that period.
I cannot get you whether or not I actually advised him of the fact that I intended to make that call prior to time I did it.
But at any event so we can move on, you will agree with me.
But you weren't asked by the deputy attorney general who was not connected with the army in any way.
The go to see the United States senator who was not a member of this committee.
That was passed but not required.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Stone.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman.
I think he's done.
I think senator he is left.
Well, so we have a stand on this day you are asked by the deputy attorney general not connected with the army because he's sent it in the maquallant.
Not a member of this committee.
The language says there on page 26-18.
Yes sir.
Mr. Rogers, telephone me and ask me if I would go.
That's right. He asked you if you would go and it stands out and you did go.
That's right.
Now the next day you attended a meeting in the department of justice with the attorney general, a deputy attorney general, chairman of the department of the White House staff and the United Nations ambassador, Henry Salivore.
Henry Salivore, Secretary of the President, that's right.
Does that mean he's conclude with a decision with the decision that he should call on the Republican members of the subterranean and talk to them about the sweetness of the oil before and in the same conversation about the so-called shion matter.
That's right and the decision.
Yes sir.
What I thought you would say is the decision was subject to my disagreement.
Had I not agreed to it? Had I not favored it? I would not have gone.
You're concerned with sort of a condition subsequently.
It is written with a nation in three seats.
There had I not agreed to it. I would not have gone.
No such decision could have been made.
My suggestion is that I understand that then your testimony is that the decision was made by the attorney general, deputy attorney general,
the two five-dimensional decision in the UN ambassador.
It did not become operative or effective until you gave your agree that it's quite correct.
Now, is chairman who was the justice that you prepared this report which had led to this conference?
I have previously specified here that that was a suggestion made to me by Governor Adam.
That was made to you.
But for the first time by Governor Sherman Adams in front of the assistant to the president.
Is that right?
What do you mean for the first time?
Well, I had made this suggestion to myself about six times in the last six weeks and I just didn't get around to do it.
You didn't get around to do it but when Sherman Adams rejected it to you, you then got around to do it.
No, it's not quite that simple sir.
Would you correct me ever since mid-December?
I have been feeling that I have with guilty of lashes as the lawyers like to say in not having prepared contemporary memoranda of the six experiences through which I was doing.
And I think the thing which more than anything else convinced me that I should go ahead with these which the preparation of these papers was not the suggestion of that day.
But the meeting of the following day in Sendin Makakis, a partner on which I wrote a memorandum the following morning.
And then I decided that I would try and reconstruct the situation of the previous few months.
And there is no doubt about the fact that because an official from outside of the defense department had observed that it would be a good thing for me to have that memorandum.
As those memorandus, I took this step which I might have been a little bit derelict about.
I took this perhaps a few days earlier but there is no doubt in my mind that I ultimately would have prepared those memorandums.
But in any event the specific preparation was at the suggestion of Sherman Adams.
Is that right?
Not quite sir. It was after it had been discussed.
I think well, will you testifying truthfully Mr. Adams when you testifying truthfully from the beginning of this hearing?
Yes, and then it would follow that you gave a truthful answer to this question of Sendin Makakis.
I believe this comes from, say, about, volume 17, page 2 9, 1 4, I believe you can, I'm not quite sure of the page.
That would be a 2 9 1 12 through 2 9 1 5. The quote I have is this.
Would you wait?
Now, would you wait just a moment to find me, y'all be quick.
What day, Gaya?
I have the 5 6 20.
Secretary Stevens, there's been an excuse for the stand for the moment.
Now, Mr. Adams, the Army Councilor, is back on the stand.
They're looking up a particular bit of testimony.
Here we go, sir. The bottom of the page 2 9 1 2.
Now, Mr. Adams, you said that, you said that, at the suggestion of Governor Sherman Adams.
You made up this report with respect to Mr. Sean. Is that correct?
Mr. Adams, yes, sir.
Do you stand on that statement that it would have to be the suggestion of Sherman Adams if you made up this report?
That is the statement I made the other day. I think that's my statement of today is more accurate.
In other words, you're changing the statement of then, so it wasn't said today, and you say, you can now go.
I think today is an elaboration of what I said the other day.
And you want to stand on the, what you said today.
That is correct. I have no requirements from Governor Adams, which is what the line of testimony seems to be attempting to elicit.
I have no requirements to resolve that conversation.
Well, sir, what I was so much interested in the requirement, I was interested in Mr. Stevens' statement,
that all of the facts and decisions were both of the army and the army alone.
And I'm trying to reconcile that, especially I can, with the many steps that would take only on the suggestion or advice of whatever you want to call it,
a higher up nut connected with the arms. That's why I made some of these questions.
Now, after this decision was reached, this is me, a decision which you'd buy me, Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General,
to why House advisors in the UN ambassador, which decision I know you'd say was not of an operative unless you concurred in it.
You did go to some of the Republicans under truck committee, didn't you, sir? Yes, sir.
Was that accurate and outactually on the army and the army alone?
Well, I was accompanied on one of the visits on the first evening, by Mr. Morgan.
On the next day, I went along to see Senator Monson.
Hello, Senator DeFair.
Thank you for any questions.
Hi, Senator.
Chair, passes any defenders to my left?
No, I'm Mr. Chairman.
And in the comments?
Mr. Allen, you've got it in the sense that you've come to the malls that I've not shown you any time.
I simply gave you an appointment at the request to Mr. Rodgers, the day's drink.
Far too the case request that I have any knowledge to board.
You know all this problem that you've been relating?
Not for me, sir.
If you come there for the purpose of voting to me about that, I came here for the purpose of talking to you about that, sir.
Were you at that time concerned about the defense of being an issue?
Yes, sir.
I was in law earlier, sir.
Did you discuss that with me at that time, also?
Yes, sir.
Were you also concerned about a life treatment of the general's liquor at that time?
No, sir.
I can't help but drink.
The liquor isn't as much as about a month later.
I mean, can you even call a user at every call?
I did talk to a lot of early voices.
You know, and about the company's matter.
At that time, I was not a member of the subcommittee.
No, sir.
You were a company, and I've so stated to you,
well, you concerned about what you were at that time, contemplating, and did you so advise me
that, uh, refusing to let the law to go out of here and respond to this thing?
We weren't contemplating that, sir.
I shall advise you.
And you were discussing that with me.
Yes, sir.
Now, what you advised by me here was this matter discussed,
let if you disresuse, and the committee desired to take in the action upon your refusal of subcommittee
for resolution, for citation, for contempt, would have to come before the full committee?
Yes, sir.
I think you did talk to that.
Well, I then tell you, as you have related this story to me,
but I wouldn't use this information that you had given the unless you put it in writing.
I tried to require specific about that, sir.
I said, the specific about it.
You said you'd have to have a written report,
and that you would have to be back on the committee.
Both of those things would have to be 30, 40, if you would be able to do anything.
That is all the subcommittee, as Fred, I'm talking about, if a citation resolution came to the full committee,
then I wouldn't make use of this information unless you placed it to me in writing.
I'm not sure that they were connected that way, but I know you did tell me you could make that...
You didn't say so in so many words, but I think it was clear.
We hadn't met before, and I was relating to you, rather, unusual story, and you felt that you weren't having a right.
Where's our one's going to use an intumacary you gave me unless you backed it up in writing.
And the right rule, you understood it, and I played it.
What did you do then?
That's exactly what you said, sir.
And I also advised you then to go talk to your public and members that you did say.
That's all.
You understand it, am I right?
I'm sorry.
No question.
When the time came, Mr. Adams, in executive hearing, I stated that I, to the best of my recollections,
you and Secretary Steven came to see me one day in my office.
Yes, but I correct in that statement.
Yes, sir.
I believe that the U.R. outside and at the end of the conversation, you came into the office.
That's correct.
That is correct, sir.
Was that the same day according to Mr. Steven's testimony that he visited five senators?
I think it is, sir.
I think we saw you first in Senator McClellan's office and walked to your office with you.
From Senator McClellan's office.
Yes, sir.
I think so.
Now, Mr. Adams, the question was asked you whether in the discussion in my office,
there was any discussion of Mr. Cohn or Mr. Shine.
To the best of my recollection, I do not remember it.
Do you remember any?
And yes, you remember me very fine.
Well, I was out of the office.
You'll recall, sir, for 15 or 20 minutes.
And I came back into your office.
And when I came back in, you asked me one question, sir.
You said, what is the worst thing that ever happened in Safari, Houston,
what do you think is the worst thing that was done by Mr. Cohn and Mr. Cohn Shine matter?
And I eliminated it for a moment, sir.
And then said to you, well, I think that the day that he said that he was repressed the Army
and Mr. Stevens would be proved with Secretary was as bad as anything.
And that was the extent of the conversation, sir.
Well, now I want you to be very frank with the committee you're on the roll.
Is there anything else with respect to Mr. Cohn and Mr. Shine?
I'd like you to tell the committee now with respect to our conversation.
I don't remember it, sir.
I don't remember that there was any discussion with reference to Mr. Cohn and Shine.
While we were in Senator McLean's office with you,
while we were walking down the hall for during the time that I was a new woman,
at all other than that one, that's their show.
Now, Mr. Adams, I'd like to ask you this question.
So whom do you report?
To the Secretary of the Army, sir.
Is there anybody else in the Army or in the Pentagon building
that the Secretary of the Army is asking to be frank with the government
who can give you any orders?
In the absence of the Secretary, the acting Secretary can.
While the Secretary is here, I take my orders from the Secretary of the Army informally.
Well, when the Secretary of the Army is asking, the acting Secretary of the Army is the Secretary.
That is right, sir.
Now, Mr. Adams, shall it be your testimony?
I got it. You tried to get along with Senator McCartney and Mr. Cohn.
The Chairman of the Subcommittee staff,
because you felt that was necessary in order to do the job you were hired to do for the Army.
Is that right? Yes, sir.
Did you think that asking Mr. Cohn to do personal favors for you to get you to see the ticket
and so on would make him feel friendly to you?
Well, I asked Mr. Cohn one to get there to take it for me.
I didn't think it would make it.
I didn't mind giving me a direct answer to the question.
Let me repeat you, question.
Did you think that asking Mr. Cohn to do personal favors for you to get you to see the ticket and so on
would make him feel friendly to you?
Well, I don't think I gave that as talk toers who had to make him feel friendly.
In that respect, our relationship with satisfactory, he was in New York.
I was in Washington from time to time. I'd asked him to do me minor favors.
Is it your habit to ask favors of people after they have been abusive to you?
Well, as I have stated on a number of occasions, sir, excepting on the matter of shine,
I got along very well with Mr. Cohn.
And when I could divert the subject away from shine,
the matter, our relationship was fairly normal.
And I felt that I had a continuing problem of getting along with Mr. Cohn.
After we had a very serious break out in January, I still came back in February and placed the call to
and for the purposes of seeing if I couldn't re-establish our relationship.
I thought I had to have discussed quite a little bit the port-mindment investigation.
And I'd like to know just what you thought was wrong with the way the McCarthy Subcommittee was conducting itself in the port-mindment investigation.
And in that interest or in that end rather, I'd like to answer specifically the following question.
Yes or no, if you feel you can answer them that way.
I profess this because I think at times we get away from the basic charges.
Did you feel that Southern McCarthy was abusing army officers?
Not during the port-mindment investigation, sir.
At any time?
Well, not until the time of the liquor incident, sir.
After the liquor incident?
Yes, sir. I felt I wasn't present while General Wicker was being interrogated.
I was present when another officer was being interrogated and I thought that officer was given a difficult time.
I was ordered from the room before General Wicker was taken in.
I asked you to hold your questions.
Yes, sir.
I'm not appreciate you're answering them yesterday.
I'll repeat the question, although I'll pass that one.
Did you feel that Southern McCarthy was disrupting the morale of army officers?
Of army officers?
That's what I said.
Yes, sir, I think so.
Did you feel that Southern McCarthy was misrepresenting to the public the extent of the problem of communist ill-sultration at port-mindment?
I did, sir.
Did you think the system's bad for the army of the United States and the country?
Yes, sir, I did.
Did you think that Southern McCarthy was misrepresenting and distorting what went on at the subcommittee hearings to the press and the public?
I did, sir.
Can you recall specifically what was said with Miss Represented or distorted what went on at these hearings?
Well, there were a number of things, sir.
I can recall.
You too, sir.
You too.
Well, I can recall too right off.
And they cannot be answered in just a few words, sir.
If you'll excuse me for a slightly longer answer.
Though it was an individual interrogated,
and the press made a lot over the fact that he had broken down
and was going to tell all about a communist firing and about it, you know, that sort of thing.
I think the executive transcript,
in the case of the individual,
had left the room obsessed,
and he came back and that's...
What he had to tell a committee when he came back
was far, far short of the existence of an espionage ring.
And his breakdown
was partially brought down by the fact that he had left home,
his mother had died the baby boy and he was home,
with his family in bereavement,
and it comes down to his interrogation,
and he was upset by the cross-examination.
And headlight made a lot over the fact that he had broken down
and was going to tell all about this denies and the firing and all that sort of thing.
And the executive transcript on that day and on subsequent days
they just did not bear it out in my opinion.
Well, that's the first one, is that right?
Yes, sir. I was the second one.
There was another incident of a man who was first referred to as a scientist,
and who was a defector from East Germany.
And the headlines made a lot over the fact that he had come from East Germany
and was going to tell about American classified information,
which was in the hands of East German technical plants.
Well, as I went on, it developed that he was not a scientist,
but that he was a technician 21 years of age
and also that the fact that he had given earlier in intelligence interrogations
so far short is what the headlines indicated he had to give.
And also his veracity was open to questions.
Now I want to ask you, Mr. Adams, please be specific.
And tell me just how this published in the European Union was harmful to the Army.
Therefore, I want to ask you these questions.
Did you feel the channel's record was being unjustifiably abused?
Yes, sir. I felt that he was unjustifiably abused.
Did you think that his statement by the subcommittee was in a straight to a uniform?
No, no. No, not exactly.
I merely made the point the other day that if we were going into the Zwicker case,
I would have to go into it in detail.
I will not let Mr. Flemington make such a complex answer, Mr. Adams,
let's cross-examining him for him.
But he'll have to do that with an aching opinion.
Let me finish the other day.
So, at the same time, we're going into the Zwicker case.
If we want to restore the Zwicker case, good, let's restore it right here.
I believe that we have had several other colloquies about the general's risk of case.
And I thought the subcommittee had agreed that we would classify as much as the peresse case,
as something which he would not endeavor to explore in detail,
who was doing the case.
And as a little bit afraid that if we start interrogation with the Bouch general's Zwicker,
we will be beginning a long new diversionary trail,
but respectfully suggest to sound as time engender,
that it is not imperative that his mind, that he has no question about the Zwicker case.
But, to my side, I hope Mr. Brownington does pursue all these individual cases.
If he does, it will give me the opportunity of bringing out the facts to him.
I have no objections whatsoever if he's going into those cases.
I merely want him to make it known that if he does,
I will proceed to bring out the facts.
And as much as the charges of the college charges,
it's not involved to tell the Zwicker case that he shares very much believed
that we should not get ourselves involved now,
in a whole new step to charges and counter charges about an incident,
which might better seem to me be discussed by some other forum than this.
Mr. Chairman and the timing.
I respect the chair's position.
We've wasted, in my opinion, some eight days,
in trying to find out for the President Eisenhower or Sherman Adams
or Ambassador Lodge or Secretary Wilson, or somebody,
was responsible for a meeting on the 21st of January,
which in turn was responsible for each charge being made.
As I understand it, Secretary Steven,
who reports in direct lines to the President,
made a statement with the President referred to in his press conference last week.
Now, for many hours, we have been questioning the accuracy and the integrity of those statements.
I for one do not see how and why it is fundamental to the pursuit of the basic charges of improper action
and the counter charges of blackmailing and hostage.
I for one do not see why it is essential that we spend so many days and hours today
in finding out whether these charges were charged,
which were drawn up by Mr. Steven, by the group in the Pentagon,
or by the entire executive department.
It seems to me that the question, as long as I am correct,
and we're getting to the end of the day,
the question came up of my conversation with Secretary Steven.
I said, I told this committee, including the junior senator from Wisconsin,
that I have discussed matters with Secretary Steven.
In fact, I volunteered at executive hearing,
and I know that the matter, which was on his mind,
was the problem that he had with his army here in the board as a result of this worker testimony.
Nevertheless, I believe very smart,
and once the junior senator was conscious about bringing in journalism workers
that will further prolong these hearings,
and therefore, with the chair of the fight, I will withdraw this line of questions.
Thank you very much.
Have you had any questions, Senator Simon?
I have no further questions.
Before the next senator starts,
the question Mr. Adams,
I would like to return to us to be here as a cost for countries to permit our stations to identify them.
This is ABC Television Network.
What plan I believe, Dr. Hall, everyone's against my husband.
It was the same idea when I was university president.
I'm sorry, I didn't inquire with Ariadz.
We hope you conclude.
We have a right to test the money,
and we conclude with this plan.
I have a question very good, sir.
I might say this is the chairman before I proceed to ask some questions.
In response to a question by Senator Simon,
Mr. Adams has given two examples of what he calls, I think he calls,
misrepresentation of some kind by Senator McCarthy in the committee in connection with the fourth-mind material.
I suppose this is something we can cover on our side of the case,
but I don't want the record to stand now without some statements from us
that Mr. Adams has grossly misrepresented the facts and falsehood instances here that they have to know.
And I hope we will have the opportunity to put those facts on the record in the right way.
The dearer say that when you take the stand that the witness under oath,
you will have the opportunity to say what you're going to say in direct testimony
or after firing a statement to be read, provided you follow the committee rule
of submitting the statements to 24 hours.
And we will be able to deal with these matters, Mr. Adams.
Certainly any questions are been injected into the country,
so you have the right to comment upon when you get to understand.
Thank you, sir.
Now, Mr. Adams, getting back, I think we were at a point where we had this meeting of the 21st
and the Attorney General office attended by the five individuals whose names were well known.
And...